On a day another 28 people died from coronavirus modelling data shows that the disease’s daily advance has reduced from 33 per cent in the early stages of the outbreak to 9 per cent this week .
Prof Philip Nolan , chairman of the National Public Health Emergency Team’s epidemiological modelling group, said the virus would have “overwhelmed” the country by now only for public-health restrictions .
What would have happened in those circumstance is that within 20 days from now we would have had a peak of 100,000 cases per day , ” he said .
If measures had been limited to initial restrictions to close schools, universities , and curtail public gatherings , the country would have encountered an “ overwhelming peak of infection at 60,000 cases ,” said Prof Nolan .
“ This is not a simple question of flattening the curve , it’s not simply a question of pushing the peak out into the future , it’s a question of completely suppressing this disease ,” he added.
The rate at which the virus is being passed has reduced significantly, he said. Where one case would infect another 4 people at the beginning of the outbreak , that reproduction multiple had fallen to about one extra person, he added.
However , the virus would continue to spread slowly through the population if that reproduction rate was even a fraction above one , said Prof Nolan .
Physical distancing and curtailment on non-essential movement would likely be needed “ for some prolonged period of time in order to keep the disease suppressed ”. And any decision to ease or lift the measures would be “ risky ” he said .
In addition to the further fatalites on Thursday the number of confirmed cases in the State increased by 500 . This represents the largest jump in a single day to date .
Fifteen of the patients who died were female and 13 were male. The average age was 84, according to the public health emergency team. Nineteen of the patients had an underlying health condition .
Th some of our darkest days. So we need to maintain our discipline and resolve in the knowledge that better days are to come.”is brings the number of deaths from the coronavirus , also known as Covid-19 , to 263 in the Republic .